# EBS Volume Types

- docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/Storage.html

- `General Purpose SSD (gp2, gp3)`

  - Balanced price and performance for a wide variety of workloads.
  - Suitable for boot volumes, small to medium-sized databases, and development/test environments.

- `Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1, io2)`

  - Designed for I/O-intensive applications requiring high IOPS.
  - Suitable for large databases, critical business applications, and workloads with predictable I/O patterns.

- `Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)`

  - Low-cost HDD designed for frequently accessed, throughput-intensive workloads.
  - Suitable for big data, data warehouses, and log processing.

- `Cold HDD (sc1)`

  - Lowest-cost HDD designed for less frequently accessed workloads.
  - Suitable for large, infrequently accessed data sets, such as backups and archives.

- EBS volumes are characterized in size | Throughput | IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second)
- When in doubt, consult the AWS documentation, it's good!
- Only gp2/gp3 and io1/io2 Block Express can be used as boot volumes.

## General Purpose SSD

- Cost effective storage, low latency.
- System boot volumes, virtual machine file systems, and general-purpose workloads.
- 1 GiB - 16 TiB
- gp3:
  - Baseline performance of 3,000 IOPS and 125 MiB/s throughput.
  - Can provision up to 16,000 IOPS and 1,000 MiB/s throughput.
- gp2:
  - Small gp2 can burst to 3,000 IOPS.
  - Size of the volume and IOPS are linked, max 16,000 IOPS.
  - 3 IOPS per GiB provisioned, means at 5,334 GiB you get 16,000 IOPS.

## Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1, io2)

- Designed for I/O-intensive applications requiring high IOPS.
- Or applications that need more than 16,000 IOPS.
- Great for transactional databases and workloads with high I/O requirements (sensitive to storage performance and consistency).
- io1 (4 GiB - 16 TiB)
  - Size of the volume and IOPS are linked, max 64,000 IOPS for Nitro instances and 32,000 IOPS for non-Nitro instances.
  - Can increase Provisioned IOPS (PIOPS) independently of volume size.
- io2 Block Express (4 GiB - 64 TiB)
  - Sub-millisecond latency and high throughput.
  - Max 256,000 IOPS and 4,000 MiB/s throughput, with ratio 1000:1 (IOPS:GiB)
- Supports multi-attach, allowing multiple EC2 instances to access the same volume.

## Hard Disk Drives (HDD)

- Cannot be used as boot volumes.
- 125 GiB - 16 TiB
- st1 (Throughput Optimized HDD):
  - Designed for frequently accessed, throughput-intensive workloads.
  - Big data, data warehouses, and log processing.
  - Max 500 MiB/s throughput, max 500 IOPS.
- sc1 (Cold HDD):
  - Lowest-cost HDD designed for less frequently accessed workloads.
  - Max 250 MiB/s throughput, max 250 IOPS.
