# Aurora

- Amazon Aurora is a proprietary technology from AWS, offering a MySQL and PostgreSQL-compatible relational database built for the cloud.
  - That means that applications and tools that work with MySQL or PostgreSQL can be used with Aurora with little or no modification.
- Aurora is "AWS-optimized" and provides performance and availability superior to standard MySQL or PostgreSQL databases.
  - Up to 5 times the throughput of standard MySQL on RDS
  - Up to 3 times the throughput of standard PostgreSQL on RDS
- Storage is distributed, fault-tolerant, self-healing, and auto-scaling (10 GB up to 128 TB per database instance).
- It can have up to 15 low-latency read replicas across multiple AZs.
  - Replication between primary and replicas is typically under 10ms.
- Automated backups, snapshots, and point-in-time recovery (PITR) are supported.
- Costs are 20% higher than standard RDS for MySQL/PostgreSQL, but you get better performance and availability.

## HA (High Availability) and Read Scaling

- 6 copies of your data are stored across 3 AZs (like S3).
  - 4 copies are needed for write operations
  - 3 copies are needed for read operations
  - Self-healing: if 1 copy is lost, it can be reconstructed from the other copies
  - Storage is striped across 100s of volumes
- One Aurora instance takes writes (master)
- Automated failover for master typically takes less than 30 seconds
- Master + up to 15 read replicas (for read scaling)
  - Supports cross-region replicas

## Aurora DB Clusters

- An Aurora DB cluster consists of:
  - A primary instance (writer)
    - Writer endpoint to connect to the primary instance. If the primary fails, the endpoint is automatically redirected to the new primary after failover.
  - Zero or more Aurora Replicas (readers)
    - Has a reader endpoint that load-balances connections across all available replicas.
    - Auto scaling of replicas is supported.
  - A cluster volume that manages the data for the DB cluster
  - Shared storage volume that spans multiple AZs from 10 GB to 128 TB

## Aurora vs. RDS
