# VPC Peering

- VPC Peering: Connects two VPCs to route traffic between them using private IP addresses.
  - Can peer VPCs across different AWS accounts and regions (inter-region VPC peering).
  - Make them behave like they are in the same network.
  - Must not have overlapping CIDR blocks. (IP Address Range)
  - Peering connection is a one-to-one relationship between two VPCs.
- VPC Peering is a non-transitive relationship. If VPC A is peered with VPC B, and VPC B is peered with VPC C, VPC A cannot communicate with VPC C through VPC B.

# VPC Endpoints

- VPC Endpoint: Enables private connections between your VPC and supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by PrivateLink without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection.
  - Only used within the VPC.
  - Instances in your VPC do not require public IP addresses to communicate with resources in the service.
  - Traffic between your VPC and the other service does not leave the Amazon network. Optimized for security and performance.
- Two types of VPC Endpoints:
  - Interface Endpoint: An elastic network interface (ENI) with a private IP address that serves as an entry point for traffic destined to a supported service. Example: connecting to CloudWatch, SSM, SNS, etc.
  - Gateway Endpoint: A gateway that is targeted for a specific route table for traffic destined to a supported AWS service, only for the services Amazon S3 or DynamoDB.

# Site-to-Site VPN and AWS Direct Connect (DX)

- Site-to-Site VPN: Connects your on-premises network to your AWS VPC over an IPsec VPN tunnel. It is a secure and encrypted connection over the internet.
  - Used for hybrid cloud architectures.
  - Can be used as a backup connection for AWS Direct Connect.
- AWS Direct Connect (DX): A dedicated physical network connection from your on-premises data center to AWS. It provides a more consistent network experience than internet-based connections. It is private, secure and fast.
  - Can reduce network costs, increase bandwidth throughput, and provide a more consistent network experience than internet-based connections.
  - Takes at least a month to set up.
